the words of ager the son of Jacob his
utterance this man declared I fell to
earth al and Yuko surely I am more
stupid than any man and do not have the
understanding of a man I neither learned
wisdom nor have knowledge of the Holy
One who has ascended into heaven or
descended who has gathered the wind in
his fists who has bound the waters in a
garment who has established all the ends
of the earth what is his name and what
is his son's name if you know every word
of God is pure he is a shield to those
who put their trust in him do not add to
his words lest he rebuked you and you be
found a liar
two things I request of you deprive me
not before I die
remove falsehood and lies far from me
give me neither poverty nor riches feed
me with the food allotted to me lest I
be full and deny you and say who was the
Lord our lest I be poor and steal and
profane the name of my god do not malign
a servant to his master lest he curse
you and you be found guilty there is a
generation that curses its father and
does not bless its mother there is a
generation that is pure in its own eyes
yet is not washed from its filthiness
there is a generation
oh how lofty are their eyes and their
eyelids are lifted up there is a
generation whose teeth are like swords
and whose fangs are like knives to
devour the poor from
the earth and the needy from among men
the leech has two daughters give and
give there are three things that are
never satisfied for never say enough the
grave the barren moon the earth that is
not satisfied with water and the fire
never says enough the eye that mocks his
father and scorns obedience to his
mother the Ravens of the valley will
pick it out and the young eagles will
eat it there are three things which are
too wonderful for me yes for which I do
not understand the way of an eagle in
the air the way of a serpent on Iraq the
way of a ship in the midst of the sea
and the way of a man with a virgin this
is the way of an adulterous woman she
eats and wipes her mouth and says I have
done no wickedness
[Music]
for three things the earth is perturbed
yes for for it cannot bear up for a
servant when he rains a fool when he is
filled with food a hateful woman when
she is married and a maidservant who
succeeds her mistress there are four
things which are little on the earth but
they are exceedingly wise the ants
are a people not strong yet they prepare
their food in the summer
The Rock badgers are a feeble folk yet
they make their homes in the cracks the
locusts have no king yet they all
advance in ranks the spider skillfully
grasps with its hands and it is in
King's palaces there are three things
which are majestic in pace yes for which
are stately and walk a lion which is
mighty among beasts and does not turn
away from any a greyhound a male goat
also and a king whose troops are with
him if you have been foolish in exalting
yourself or if you have devised evil put
your hand on your mouth
for as the churning of milk produces
butter and wringing the nose produces
blood so the forcing of wrath produces
strife
[Music]